Burundi is a lush mountainous east-African country that's surrounded by
Congo-Kingshasa to the west, Rwanda to the north, and Tanzania to the south-east.
The 12,700 zealous publishers of the good news live up to the words that we find
in 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 2. And there it tells us to preach the word to
be added urgently in favorable times and in difficult times. Now in favorable
times our brothers average around 16 hours of service a month and they conduct
three Bible studies each. And our young ones are zealous too. Take Nola for
example, she's six years old, and two men came to her house to borrow some hot
charcoals that are commonly used to cook food. And later on Nola noticed that
the two men were using these coals to light up a cigarette. And so she went up
to them and says, if I knew that you would be using these coals to light up your
cigarettes, I would not have given them to you. She then went to the Kingdom Hall
picked up some magazines on smoking, brought them back to the men, and she insisted
that they read them right away. She also sees the opportunity to invite them to the
upcoming regional convention and she is insisted once again that they attend. Impressed
with her persistence, the men did attend two days of the convention.
Public witnessing is quite effective in Burundi. Primary consideration is usually given to
areas of high pedestrian traffic, but we would be so overwhelmed by crowds of
people that we have to choose areas with less pedestrian traffic. That haven't
been said. Publishers are still often surrounded by ten or more people asking
questions, taking publications, having meaningful conversations. Now one woman
who was surprised by this new method that we were using went up to the brothers
and exclaimed, now everybody will go to your church. Now Burundi has recently been through
difficult times, unfortunately, with civil unrest due to elections. And in parts of the
capital city, Bujumbura, riots posed challenges for our brothers. Because of that, the branch
office had to provide food relief to some of our brothers and sisters who could not go
to work. They had to stay home. Nevertheless, our brothers maintain their zeal. And the
civil unrest happened at the same time that Nepal was hit by an earthquake. And it was
encouraging because although our brothers could have been consumed by their own difficulties,
we often heard the brothers at Bethel or in the congregation praying for our brothers
in Nepal. Through this difficult time, our neutral stand and our good reputation as witnesses
was a protection. One brother had to walk through an area that was hardest hit by clashes
and riots. And he wondered how he would make it through safely. So what he did is got
a convention badge, slipped in a piece of paper that said on it, Jehovah's Witnesses.
And whenever the rioters would stop him, he'd show this badge, and it let him go. He had
no problems and arrived to his destination safely. This past May was the worst of the civil
unrest. And we thought for sure that the activities of our brothers and sisters would
understandably be lower. But to the contrary, Burundi experienced an all-time peak in regular
pioneers, an all-time peak in Bible studies being conducted, over 41,300 of them. And
the publisher average went from 16 to 18. And during that difficult time, we also held
the first class of the School for Kingdom Evangelizers in the local language, Kirundi,
and the 20 happy students graduated on July 26th. Burundi is an evangelizer's paradise
as we can see from the results obtained in favorable times and in difficult times. During
the tribulation of the first century, when Stephen was murdered and all the Christians
were scattered, Acts 11, 21 says that a great number that became believers turned to the Lord.
We pray that we have the same outcome in Burundi. It is a great pleasure to convey to you the
warmest Christian love of the 85 members of the Bethel family and the 14 missionaries in Burundi.